In this video, we'll talk about how
to fit the parameters of theta for
the logistic compression.
In particular, I'd like to define
the optimization objective, or
the cost function that we'll
use to fit the parameters.
Here's the supervised learning problem
of fitting logistic regression model.
We have a training set of m
training examples and as usual,
each of our examples is represented
by a that's n plus one dimensional,
and as usual we have x o equals one.
First feature or
a zero feature is always equal to one.
And because this is a computation problem,
our training set has the property
that every label y is either 0 or 1.
This is a hypothesis, and the parameters
of a hypothesis is this theta over here.
And the question that I want to talk
about is given this training set,
how do we choose, or
how do we fit the parameter's theta?
Back when we were developing
the linear regression model,
we used the following cost function.
I've written this slightly differently
where instead of 1 over 2m,
I've taken a one-half and
put it inside the summation instead.
Now I want to use an alternative way
of writing out this cost function.
Which is that instead of writing
out this square of return here,
let's write in here costs
of h of x, y and
I'm going to define that total cost
of h of x, y to be equal to this.
Just equal to this one-half
of the squared error.
So now we can see more clearly that the
cost function is a sum over my training
set, which is 1 over n times the sum of
my training set of this cost term here.
And to simplify this
equation a little bit more,
it's going to be convenient to
get rid of those superscripts.
So just define cost of h
of x comma y to be equal to
one half of this squared error.
And interpretation of this cost function
is that, this is the cost I want my
learning algorithm to have to
pay if it outputs that value,
if its prediction is h of x,
and the actual label was y.
So just cross off the superscripts, right,
and no surprise for linear regression
the cost we've defined is that or
the cost of this is that is one-half
times the square difference between what
I predicted and
the actual value that we have, 0 for y.
Now this cost function worked fine for
linear regression.
But here,
we're interested in logistic regression.
If we could minimize this cost
function that is plugged into J here,
that will work okay.
But it turns out that if we use
this particular cost function,
this would be a non-convex
function of the parameter's data.
Here's what I mean by non-convex.
Have some cross function j of theta and
for logistic regression,
this function h here
has a nonlinearity that is one over one
plus e to the negative theta transpose.
So this is a pretty
complicated nonlinear function.
And if you take the function,
plug it in here.
And then take this cost function and
plug it in there and
then plot what j of theta looks like.
You find that j of theta can look
like a function that's like this
with many local optima.
And the formal term for this is
that this is a non-convex function.
And you can kind of tell, if you were
to run gradient descent on this sort of
function It is not guaranteed to
converge to the global minimum.
Whereas in contrast what we would like is
to have a cost function j of theta that is
convex, that is a single bow-shaped
function that looks like this so
that if you run theta in the we
would be guaranteed that
would converge to the global minimum.
And the problem with using this great
cost function is that because of this
very nonlinear function that appears
in the middle here, J of theta ends
up being a nonconvex function if you were
to define it as a square cost function.
So what we'd like to do is, instead of
come up with a different cost function,
that is convex, and so
that we can apply a great algorithm,
like gradient descent and
be guaranteed to find the global minimum.
Here's the cost function that we're
going to use for logistic regression.
We're going to say that the cost, or
the penalty that the algorithm pays,
if it upwards the value of h(x),
so if this is some number like 0.7,
it predicts the value h of x.
And the actual cost
label turns out to be y.
The cost is going to be
-log(h(x)) if y = 1 and
-log(1- h(x)) if y = 0.
This looks like a pretty
complicated function, but
let's plot this function to gain some
intuition about what it's doing.
Let's start off with the case of y = 1.
If y = 1,
then the cost function is -log(h(x)).
And if we plot that, so let's say
that the horizontal axis is h(x),
so we know that a hypothesis is going
to output a value between 0 and 1.
Right, so h(x),
that varies between 0 and 1.
If you plot what this cost function looks
like, you find that it looks like this.
One way to see why the plot looks like
this is because if you were to plot log z
with z on the horizontal axis,
then that looks like that.
And it approaches minus infinity, right?
So this is what the log
function looks like.
And this is 0, this is 1.
Here, z is of course
playing the role of h of x.
And so -log z will look like this.
Just flipping the sign, minus log z,
and we're interested only in the range
of when this function goes between
zero and one, so get rid of that.
And so we're just left with,
you know, this part of the curve, and
that's what this curve
on the left looks like.
Now, this cost function has a few
interesting and desirable properties.
First, you notice that if y is
equal to 1 and h(x) is equal to 1,
in other words, if the hypothesis
exactly predicts h equals 1 and
y is exactly equal to what it predicted,
then the cost = 0 right?
That corresponds to the curve
doesn't actually flatten out.
The curve is still going.
First, notice that if h(x) = 1,
if that hypothesis
predicts that y = 1 and
if indeed y = 1 then the cost = 0.
That corresponds to this point down here,
right?
If h(x) = 1 and we're only
considering the case of y = 1 here.
But if h(x) = 1 then the cost
is down here, is equal to 0.
And that's where we'd like it to be
because if we correctly predict the output
y, then the cost is 0.
But now notice also that
as h(x) approaches 0, so as
the output of a hypothesis approaches 0,
the cost blows up and it goes to infinity.
And what this does is this captures
the intuition that if a hypothesis of 0,
that's like saying a hypothesis saying
the chance of y equals 1 is equal to 0.
It's kinda like our going to
our medical patients and saying
the probability that you have a malignant
tumor, the probability that y=1, is zero.
So, it's like absolutely impossible
that your tumor is malignant.
But if it turns out that the tumor, the
patient's tumor, actually is malignant, so
if y is equal to one,
even after we told them,
that the probability of
it happening is zero.
So it's absolutely impossible for
it to be malignant.
But if we told them this with that level
of certainty and we turn out to be wrong,
then we penalize the learning
algorithm by a very, very large cost.
And that's captured by
having this cost go to
infinity if y equals 1 and
h(x) approaches 0.
This slide consider
the case of y equals 1.
Let's look at what the cost
function looks like for y equals 0.
If y is equal to 0,
then the cost looks like this,
it looks like this expression over here,
and if you plot the function,
-log(1-z), what you get is the cost
function actually looks like this.
So it goes from 0 to 1,
something like that and so if you plot
the cost function for the case of y equals
0, you find that it looks like this.
And what this curve does
is it now goes up and
it goes to plus infinity as h of x
goes to 1 because as I was saying,
that if y turns out to be equal to 0.
But we predicted that y is equal to
1 with almost certainly, probably 1,
then we end up paying a very large cost.
And conversely,
if h of x is equal to 0 and y equals 0,
then the hypothesis melted.
The protected y of z is equal to 0,
and it turns out y is equal to 0,
so at this point,
the cost function is going to be 0.
In this video, we will define the cost
function for a single train example.
The topic of convexity analysis is now
beyond the scope of this course, but
it is possible to show that with
a particular choice of cost function,
this will give a convex
optimization problem.
Overall cost function j of theta will
be convex and local optima free.
In the next video we're gonna take
these ideas of the cost function for
a single training example and develop that
further, and define the cost function for
the entire training set.
And we'll also figure out a simpler way
to write it than we have been using so
far, and based on that we'll
work out grading descent, and
that will give us logistic
compression algorithm.